# Threat actor: Carbanak, Anunak

**UUID**: e5869096-4b2d-406d-b8d1-713eda321457

**First seen**: 2013

**Source last modified**: 2023-06-21

## Threat actor aliases

Carbanak (Kaspersky), Anunak (Group-IB), Carbon Spider (CrowdStrike), Gold Waterfall (SecureWorks), ELBRUS (Microsoft), Sangria Tempest (Microsoft)

## Description

Carbanak is a threat group that mainly targets banks. It also refers to malware of the same name (Carbanak). It is sometimes referred to as {{FIN7}}, but these appear to be two groups using the same Carbanak malware and are therefore tracked separately.

(Kaspersky) From late 2013 onwards, several banks and financial institutions have been attacked by an unknown group of cybercriminals. In all these attacks, a similar modus operandi was used. According to victims and the law enforcement agencies (LEAs) involved in the investigation, this could result in cumulative losses of up to 1 billion USD. The attacks are still active. This report provides a technical analysis of these attacks. The motivation for the attackers, who are making use of techniques commonly seen in Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs), appears to be financial gain as opposed to espionage. An analysis of the campaign has revealed that the initial infections were achieved using spear phishing emails that appeared to be legitimate banking communications, with Microsoft Word 97 â€“ 2003 (.doc) and Control Panel Applet (.CPL) files attached. We believe that the attackers also redirected to exploit kits website traffic that related to financial activity.

## Sponsor type and motivation

**Sponsor**: 

**Motivation**: Financial crime, Financial gain


## Country of origin

Ukraine

## Observed attacked sectors where victims operate in

Energy, Financial, Food and Agriculture, Healthcare, Hospitality

## Observed attacked countries where victims operate in

Australia, Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Czech, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Iceland, India, Luxembourg, Morocco, Nepal, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, UK, Ukraine, USA, Uzbekistan

## Observed usage of tools

Antak, Ave Maria, BABYMETAL, Backdoor Batel, Bateleur, BELLHOP, BlackMatter, Boostwrite, Cain & Abel, Carbanak, Cobalt Strike, Clop, DarkSide, DNSMessenger, DNSRat, DRIFTPIN, FlawedAmmyy, FOXGRABBER, Griffon, HALFBAKED, JS Flash, KLRD, Mimikatz, MBR Eraser, Odinaff, POWERPIPE, POWERSOURCE, PsExec, SocksBot, SoftPerfect Network Scanner, SQLRAT, TeamViewer, TinyMet, WARPRISM

## Reported hacking operations

2020-08: DarkSide: New targeted ransomware demands million dollar ransoms
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/darkside-new-targeted-ransomware-demands-million-dollar-ransoms/

2020-08: DarkSide Ransomware hits North American real estate developer
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/darkside-ransomware-hits-north-american-real-estate-developer/

2020-10: Ransomware gang donates part of ransom demands to charity organizations
https://www.zdnet.com/article/ransomware-gang-donates-part-of-ransom-demands-to-charity-organizations/

2020-11: Darkside Ransomware Gang Launches Affiliate Program
https://www.bankinfosecurity.com/blogs/darkside-ransomware-gang-launches-affiliate-program-p-2968

2020-11: DarkSide Ransomware Group Makes New Storage System
https://www.binarydefense.com/threat_watch/darkside-ransomware-group-makes-new-storage-system/

2021-02: Leading Canadian rental car company hit by DarkSide ransomware
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/leading-canadian-rental-car-company-hit-by-darkside-ransomware/

2021-02: Eletrobras, Copel energy companies hit by ransomware attacks
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/eletrobras-copel-energy-companies-hit-by-ransomware-attacks/

2021-02: Hypervisor Jackpotting: CARBON SPIDER and SPRITE SPIDER Target ESXi Servers With Ransomware to Maximize Impact
https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/carbon-spider-sprite-spider-target-esxi-servers-with-ransomware/

2021-03: Darkside 2.0 Ransomware Promises Fastest Ever Encryption Speeds
https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com/news/darkside-20-ransomware-fastest/

2021-03: CompuCom MSP hit by DarkSide ransomware cyberattack
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/compucom-msp-hit-by-darkside-ransomware-cyberattack/

2021-04: Canadian retailer Home Hardware hit by ransomware
https://financialpost.com/technology/tech-news/canadian-retailer-home-hardware-hit-by-ransomware

2021-04: Ransomware gang wants to short the stock price of their victims
https://therecord.media/ransomware-gang-wants-to-short-the-stock-price-of-their-victims/

2021-04: US chemical distributor shares info on DarkSide ransomware data theft
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/us-chemical-distributor-shares-info-on-darkside-ransomware-data-theft/

2021-04: Fashion retailer Guess discloses data breach after ransomware attack
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/fashion-retailer-guess-discloses-data-breach-after-ransomware-attack/

2021-05: A Toshiba business unit says it has been attacked by hacking group DarkSide
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/05/14/toshiba-business-unit-says-it-has-been-hacked-by-darkside-reuters.html

2021-05: Chemical distributor pays $4.4 million to DarkSide ransomware
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/chemical-distributor-pays-44-million-to-darkside-ransomware/

2021-05: Largest U.S. pipeline shuts down operations after ransomware attack
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/largest-us-pipeline-shuts-down-operations-after-ransomware-attack/

2021-07: BlackMatter ransomware targets companies with revenue of $100 million and more
https://therecord.media/blackmatter-ransomware-targets-companies-with-revenues-of-100-million-and-more/

2021-08: Linux version of BlackMatter ransomware targets VMware ESXi servers
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/linux-version-of-blackmatter-ransomware-targets-vmware-esxi-servers/

2021-08: FBI: FIN7 hackers target US companies with BadUSB devices to install ransomware
https://therecord.media/fbi-fin7-hackers-target-us-companies-with-badusb-devices-to-install-ransomware/

2021-09: BlackMatter ransomware hits medical technology giant Olympus
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/blackmatter-ransomware-hits-medical-technology-giant-olympus/

2021-09: US farmer cooperative hit by $5.9M BlackMatter ransomware attack
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/us-farmer-cooperative-hit-by-59m-blackmatter-ransomware-attack/

2021-09: Marketron marketing services hit by Blackmatter ransomware
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/marketron-marketing-services-hit-by-blackmatter-ransomware/

2021-10: DarkSide ransomware gang moves some of its Bitcoin after REvil got hit by law enforcement
https://therecord.media/darkside-ransomware-gang-moves-some-of-its-bitcoin-after-revil-got-hit-by-law-enforcement/

2021-11: BlackMatter: New Data Exfiltration Tool Used in Attacks
https://symantec-enterprise-blogs.security.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/blackmatter-data-exfiltration

2021-11: BlackMatter ransomware moves victims to LockBit after shutdown
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/blackmatter-ransomware-moves-victims-to-lockbit-after-shutdown/

2023-04: Microsoft: Notorious FIN7 hackers return in Clop ransomware attacks
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/microsoft-notorious-fin7-hackers-return-in-clop-ransomware-attacks/

## Reported counter operations against threat actor

2018-03: Mastermind behind EUR 1 billion cyber bank robbery arrested in Spain
https://www.europol.europa.eu/newsroom/news/mastermind-behind-eur-1-billion-cyber-bank-robbery-arrested-in-spain

2018-08: Three Carbanak cyber heist gang members arrested
https://www.computerweekly.com/news/252446153/Three-Carbanak-cyber-heist-gang-members-arrested

2021-05: Darkside ransomware gang says it lost control of its servers & money a day after Biden threat
https://therecord.media/darkside-ransomware-gang-says-it-lost-control-of-its-servers-money-a-day-after-biden-threat/

2021-07: Dutch police confiscate DarkSide server
https://cyberthreatintelligence.com/news/dutch-police-confiscate-darkside-server/

2021-11: BlackMatter ransomware says its shutting down due to pressure from local authorities
https://therecord.media/blackmatter-ransomware-says-its-shutting-down-due-to-pressure-from-local-authorities/

2021-11: US offers $10 million reward for info on Darkside ransomware group
https://therecord.media/us-offers-10-million-reward-for-info-on-darkside-ransomware-group/



