# Threat actor: LockBit Gang

**UUID**: 1c9dfb2e-ae8a-43f1-8b60-bcf36d669edf

**First seen**: 2019

**Source last modified**: 2024-01-17

## Threat actor aliases

LockBit Gang (?)

## Description

(Bleeping Computer) LockBit ransomware takes as little as five minutes to deploy the encryption routine on target systems once it lands on the victim network.

Joining the ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) business in September 2019, LockBit is atypical in that it’s driven by automated processes for quick spreading across the victim network, identifying valuable systems and locking them up.

LockBit attacks leave few traces for forensic analysis as the malware loads into the system memory, with logs and supporting files removed upon execution.

## Sponsor type and motivation

**Sponsor**: 

**Motivation**: Financial gain


## Country of origin

[Unknown]

## Observed attacked sectors where victims operate in

Aviation, Defense, Energy, Financial, Healthcare, Transportation

## Observed attacked countries where victims operate in

Worlwide

## Observed usage of tools

3AM, CrackMapExec, EmpireProject, LockBit, Mimikatz, PsExec

## Reported hacking operations

2020-05: LockBit ransomware self-spreads to quickly encrypt 225 systems
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-self-spreads-to-quickly-encrypt-225-systems/

2020-08: Interpol: Lockbit ransomware attacks affecting American SMBs
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/interpol-lockbit-ransomware-attacks-affecting-american-smbs/

2020-09: LockBit ransomware launches data leak site to double-extort victims
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-launches-data-leak-site-to-double-extort-victims/

2020-12: Ransomware hits helicopter maker Kopter
https://www.zdnet.com/article/ransomware-hits-helicopter-maker-kopter/

2021-04: UK rail network Merseyrail likely hit by Lockbit ransomware
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/uk-rail-network-merseyrail-likely-hit-by-lockbit-ransomware/

2021-06: LockBit Resurfaces With Version 2.0 Ransomware Detections in Chile, Italy, Taiwan, UK
https://www.trendmicro.com/en_us/research/21/h/lockbit-resurfaces-with-version-2-0-ransomware-detections-in-chi.html

2021-08: Energy group ERG reports minor disruptions after ransomware attack
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/energy-group-erg-reports-minor-disruptions-after-ransomware-attack/

2021-08: LockBit ransomware recruiting insiders to breach corporate networks
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-recruiting-insiders-to-breach-corporate-networks/

2021-08: LockBit 2.0 ransomware incidents in Australia
https://www.cyber.gov.au/acsc/view-all-content/alerts/lockbit-20-ransomware-incidents-australia

2021-08: Accenture confirms hack after LockBit ransomware data leak threats
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/accenture-confirms-hack-after-lockbit-ransomware-data-leak-threats/

2021-08: LockBit Ransomware Wants to Hire Your Employees
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/lockbit-ransomware-wants-to-hire-your-employees

2021-08: Bangkok Air confirms passenger PII leak after ransomware attack
https://therecord.media/bangkok-air-confirms-passenger-pii-leak-after-ransomware-attack/

2021-09: LockBit 2.0: Ransomware Attacks Surge After Successful Affiliate Recruitment
https://securityintelligence.com/posts/lockbit-ransomware-attacks-surge-affiliate-recruitment/

2021-10: LockBit 2.0 ransomware hit Israeli defense firm E.M.I.T. Aviation Consulting
https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/122892/cyber-crime/e-m-i-t-aviation-consulting-ransomware.html

2021-11: BlackMatter ransomware moves victims to LockBit after shutdown
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/blackmatter-ransomware-moves-victims-to-lockbit-after-shutdown/

2022-01: Infamous ransomware group claims it hacked France’s Justice Ministry
https://www.politico.eu/article/infamous-ransomware-group-claims-it-hacked-frances-justice-ministry/

2022-01: LockBit ransomware gang claims PayBito crypto exchange as new victim
https://www.hackread.com/lockbit-ransomware-paybito-crypto-exchange-hack/

2022-02: Bridgestone Americas confirms ransomware attack, LockBit leaks data
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/bridgestone-americas-confirms-ransomware-attack-lockbit-leaks-data/

2022-02: Russia-Linked LockBit Gang Attacks an MSP and Two Manufacturers Using the Targets' RMM Tools to Infect Downstream Customers and Employees with Ransomware
https://www.esentire.com/blog/russia-linked-lockbit-ransomware-gang-attacks-an-msp-and-two-manufacturers-using-the-targets-rmm-tools-to-infect-downstream-customers-and-employees-with-ransomware

2022-03: Rail giant Wabtec discloses data breach after Lockbit ransomware attack
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/rail-giant-wabtec-discloses-data-breach-after-lockbit-ransomware-attack/

2022-04: Rio de Janeiro finance department hit with LockBit ransomware
https://therecord.media/rio-de-janeiro-finance-department-hit-with-lockbit-ransomware/

2022-04: Lockbit, Hive, and BlackCat attack automotive supplier in triple ransomware attack
https://news.sophos.com/en-us/2022/08/10/lockbit-hive-and-blackcat-attack-automotive-supplier-in-triple-ransomware-attack/

2022-05: LockBit 2.0 posted a notice to the dark web portal it uses to identify and extort its victims saying it had files from the Bulgarian State Agency for Refugees under the Council of Ministers.
https://www.cyberscoop.com/lockbit-ransomware-attack-bulgarian-refugee-agency/

2022-05: Canadian fighter jet training company investigating ransomware attack
https://therecord.media/top-aces-ransomware-attack-lockbit/

2022-05: Foxconn confirms ransomware attack disrupted production in Mexico
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/foxconn-confirms-ransomware-attack-disrupted-production-in-mexico/

2022-06: Mandiant: “No evidence” we were hacked by LockBit ransomware
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/mandiant-no-evidence-we-were-hacked-by-lockbit-ransomware/

2022-06: LockBit Ransomware Disguised as Copyright Claim E-mail Being Distributed
https://asec.ahnlab.com/en/35822/

2022-06: LockBit claims ransomware attack on security giant Entrust, leaks data
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-claims-ransomware-attack-on-security-giant-entrust-leaks-data/

2022-06: LockBit 3.0 introduces the first ransomware bug bounty program
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-30-introduces-the-first-ransomware-bug-bounty-program/

2022-07: French telecom company La Poste Mobile struggling to recover from ransomware attack
https://therecord.media/french-telecom-company-la-poste-mobile-struggling-to-recover-from-ransomware-attack/

2022-07: Ransomware gang now lets you search their stolen data
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/ransomware-gang-now-lets-you-search-their-stolen-data/

2022-07: LockBit claims ransomware attack on Italian tax agency
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-claims-ransomware-attack-on-italian-tax-agency/

2022-07: The prolific Lockbit ransomware gang appears to have claimed another two scalps in recent days: the Canadian town of St Marys and the Italian tax agency.
https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com/news/lockbit-ramps-up-attacks-on-public/

2022-08: LockBit ransomware gang gets aggressive with triple-extortion tactic
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-gang-gets-aggressive-with-triple-extortion-tactic/

2022-09: LockBit updates leak site with post about Sud-Francilien hospital
https://www.databreaches.net/lockbit-updates-leak-site-with-post-about-sud-francilien-hospital/

2022-09: Virginia County Confirms Personal Information Stolen in Ransomware Attack
https://www.securityweek.com/virginia-county-confirms-personal-information-stolen-ransomware-attack

2022-10: Microsoft Exchange servers hacked to deploy LockBit ransomware
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/microsoft-exchange-servers-hacked-to-deploy-lockbit-ransomware/

2022-10: Japanese tech firm Oomiya hit by LockBit 3.0. Multiple supply chains potentially impacted
https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/137243/cyber-crime/oomiya-lockbit-3-0-ransomware.html

2022-10: Pendragon car dealer refuses $60 million LockBit ransomware demand
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/pendragon-car-dealer-refuses-60-million-lockbit-ransomware-demand/

2022-11: LockBit ransomware claims attack on Continental automotive giant
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-claims-attack-on-continental-automotive-giant/

2022-11: LockBit 3.0 gang claims to have stolen data from Kearney & Company
https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/138136/cyber-crime/lockbit-ransomware-kearney-company.html

2022-11: LockBit 3.0 Says It's Holding a Canadian City for Ransom
https://www.bankinfosecurity.com/lockbit-30-says-its-holding-canadian-city-for-ransom-a-20529

2022-11: LockBit takes credit for November ransomware attack on Sacramento PBS station
https://therecord.media/lockbit-takes-credit-kvie-pbs-ransomware/

2022-12: LockBit claims attack on California's Department of Finance
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-claims-attack-on-californias-department-of-finance/

2022-12: LockBit ransomware used in attack on Ohio town’s court, police department and more
https://therecord.media/lockbit-ransomware-group-attacks-ohio-towns-court-police-department-and-more/

2022-12: Port of Lisbon website still down as LockBit gang claims cyberattack
https://therecord.media/port-of-lisbon-website-still-down-as-lockbit-gang-claims-cyberattack/

2022-12: LockBit 3.0 gives Sick Kids free decryptor, claims to ban partner who attacked them
https://www.databreaches.net/breaking-lockbit-3-0-gives-sick-kids-free-decryptor-claims-to-ban-partner-who-attacked-them/

2022-12: Los Angeles’ Housing Authority hit by LockBit
https://www.databreaches.net/los-angeles-housing-authority-hit-by-lockbit-claim/

2023-01: LockBit ransomware gang claims Royal Mail cyberattack
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-gang-claims-royal-mail-cyberattack/

2023-01: LockBit ransomware goes 'Green,' uses new Conti-based encryptor
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-goes-green-uses-new-conti-based-encryptor/

2023-02: LockBit gang takes credit for attack on water utility in Portugal
https://therecord.media/porto-portugal-water-utility-cyberattack-lockbit

2023-02: Washington state public bus system confirms ransomware attack
https://therecord.media/pierce-transit-washington-ransomware-attack-lockbit

2023-02: LockBit ransomware gang now also claims City of Oakland breach
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-gang-now-also-claims-city-of-oakland-breach/

2023-02: LockBit Green and phishing that targets organizations
https://securelist.com/crimeware-report-lockbit-switchsymb/110068/

2023-03: LockBit brags: We'll leak thousands of SpaceX blueprints stolen from supplier
https://www.theregister.com/2023/03/13/lockbit_spacex_ransomware/

2023-03: LockBit ransomware claims Essendant attack, company says “network outage”
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-claims-essendant-attack-company-says-network-outage-/

2023-03: Data stolen from Florida sheriff’s office leaked by LockBit ransomware group
https://therecord.media/florida-sheriff-data-leak-lockbit-ransomware

2023-03: LockBit leaks data stolen from the South Korean National Tax Service
https://securityaffairs.com/144342/cyber-crime/lockbit-south-korean-national-tax-service.html

2023-04: Darktrace: Investigation found no evidence of LockBit breach
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/darktrace-investigation-found-no-evidence-of-lockbit-breach/

2023-04: LockBit ransomware encryptors found targeting Mac devices
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-encryptors-found-targeting-mac-devices/

2023-04: Microsoft: Clop and LockBit ransomware behind PaperCut server hacks
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/microsoft-clop-and-lockbit-ransomware-behind-papercut-server-hacks/

2023-04: LockBit 3.0 Leaks 600 GBs of Data Stolen From Indian Lender
https://www.bankinfosecurity.com/lockbit-30-leaks-600-gbs-data-stolen-from-indian-lender-a-22010

2023-04: Royal Dutch Football Association says hackers stole employee data
https://therecord.media/netherlands-dutch-football-association-cyberattack-soccer
https://therecord.media/dutch-football-association-paid-ransom-lockbit

2023-05: LockBit Leaks 1.5TB of Data Stolen From Indonesia's BSI Bank
https://www.bankinfosecurity.com/lockbit-leaks-15tb-data-stolen-from-indonesias-bsi-bank-a-22110

2023-05: Kyocera AVX says ransomware attack impacted 39,000 individuals
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/kyocera-avx-says-ransomware-attack-impacted-39-000-individuals/

2023-06: Zipper giant YKK confirms cyberattack targeted U.S. networks
https://therecord.media/ykk-zipper-manufacturer-cyberattack-us-operations

2023-06: TSMC denies LockBit hack as ransomware gang demands $70 million
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/tsmc-denies-lockbit-hack-as-ransomware-gang-demands-70-million/

2023-07: Wisconsin county dealing with ‘catastrophic software failure’; California city declares ransomware emergency
https://therecord.media/wisconsin-county-dealing-with-software-failure

2023-07: Russia-linked cybercriminals target school for children with learning difficulties
https://therecord.media/russian-cybercriminals-target-uk-school

2023-08: The LockBit ransomware group threatens to leak medical data of cancer patients stolen from Varian Medical Systems
https://securityaffairs.com/149307/cyber-crime/varian-medical-systems-lockbit-ransomware.html

2023-08: Sensitive Data about UK Military Sites Potentially Leaked by LockBit
https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com/news/sensitive-data-uk-army-potentially/

2023-08: California city investigating data theft after ransomware group’s claims
https://therecord.media/california-city-el-cerrito-investigates-data-theft-lockbit

2023-08: Siemens Healthineers responds to alleged data theft by LockBit ransomware gang
https://therecord.media/siemens-healthineers-alleged-ransomware-incident-lockbit

2023-08: Spain warns of LockBit Locker ransomware phishing attacks
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/spain-warns-of-lockbit-locker-ransomware-phishing-attacks/

2023-08: Montreal electricity organization latest victim in LockBit ransomware spree
https://therecord.media/montreal-electricity-organization-lockbit-victim

2023-08: The LockBit ransomware gang claims to have breached the Commission des services electriques de Montréal (CSEM)
https://securityaffairs.com/150247/cyber-crime/lockbit-ransomware-csem.html

2023-08: Under Siege: Rapid7-Observed Exploitation of Cisco ASA SSL VPNs
https://www.rapid7.com/blog/post/2023/08/29/under-siege-rapid7-observed-exploitation-of-cisco-asa-ssl-vpns/

2023-09: CDW data to be leaked next week after negotiations with LockBit break down
https://www.theregister.com/2023/10/06/cdw_lockbit_negotiations/

2023-09: Alleged LockBit attack shuts down city networks in Seville
https://therecord.media/lockbit-cyberattack-shuts-down-networks-in-seville-spain

2023-09: Virginia school district open despite LockBit ransomware attack
https://therecord.media/virginia-school-district-open-lockbit

2023-09: 3AM: New Ransomware Family Used As Fallback in Failed LockBit Attack
https://symantec-enterprise-blogs.security.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/3am-ransomware-lockbit

2023-09: Upstate New York nonprofit hospitals still facing issues after LockBit ransomware attack
https://therecord.media/upstate-new-york-hospitals-ransomware-attack

2023-10: Freight giant Estes refuses to deliver ransom, says personal data opened and stolen
https://www.theregister.com/2024/01/03/estes_ransomware/

2023-10: Boeing confirms cyberattack amid LockBit ransomware claims
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/boeing-confirms-cyberattack-amid-lockbit-ransomware-claims/
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-leaks-gigabytes-of-boeing-data/

2023-10: California community college Río Hondo dealing with cybersecurity incident
https://therecord.media/california-college-rio-hondo-cyberattack

2023-11: Industrial and Commercial Bank of China dealing with LockBit ransomware attack
https://therecord.media/icbc-dealing-with-ransomware-attack

2023-11: Egyptian E-Payment Vendor Recovering From LockBit Ransomware Attack
https://www.darkreading.com/cyberattacks-data-breaches/fawry-recovering-from-lockbit-ransomware-attack-

2023-11: LockBit ransomware group assemble strike team to breach banks, law firms and governments
https://doublepulsar.com/lockbit-ransomware-group-assemble-strike-team-to-breach-banks-law-firms-and-governments-4220580bfcee?gi=af98d89a956a

2023-11: Canadian government discloses data breach after contractor hacks
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/canadian-government-discloses-data-breach-after-contractor-hacks/

2023-11: Capital Health attack claimed by LockBit ransomware, risk of data leak
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/capital-health-attack-claimed-by-lockbit-ransomware-risk-of-data-leak/

2023-12: Shoe retailer Aldo says LockBit posting is related to system at franchise partner
https://therecord.media/aldo-franchise-partner-lockbit-ransomware-posting

2023-12: LockBit ransomware now poaching BlackCat, NoEscape affiliates
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-now-poaching-blackcat-noescape-affiliates/

2023-12: The ransomware attack on Westpole is disrupting digital services for Italian public administration
https://securityaffairs.com/156090/cyber-crime/westpole-ransomware-attack.html

2023-12: LockBit ransomware gang claims to have breached accountancy firm Xeinadin
https://securityaffairs.com/156303/cyber-crime/lockbit-gang-xeinadin.html

2023-12: Lockbit ransomware disrupts emergency care at German hospitals
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-disrupts-emergency-care-at-german-hospitals/

## Reported counter operations against threat actor

2022-08: LockBit ransomware blames Entrust for DDoS attacks on leak sites
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-blames-entrust-for-ddos-attacks-on-leak-sites/

2022-09: LockBit ransomware builder leaked online by “angry developer”
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lockbit-ransomware-builder-leaked-online-by-angry-developer-/

2022-11: Man Charged for Participation in LockBit Global Ransomware Campaign
https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/man-charged-participation-lockbit-global-ransomware-campaign

2023-06: Suspected LockBit ransomware affiliate arrested, charged in US
ttps://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/suspected-lockbit-ransomware-affiliate-arrested-charged-in-us/

2023-08: Lockbit leak, research opportunities on tools leaked from TAs
https://securelist.com/lockbit-ransomware-builder-analysis/110370/

2023-12: Alleged LockBit operator to face new cybercrime charges in Canada
https://therecord.media/lockbit-operator-to-face-new-charges-canada



